Our theme for this month is
“You Are ‘Especially Acceptable’ to Jehovah.”
We love Jehovah,
and we want to give him our best.
But we want our sacrifices
to be acceptable to him.
So we may strive to be involved
as much as possible
in all the exciting things going on
in the organization.
But do you ever feel discouraged,
perhaps even guilty or frustrated
regarding your sacrifices to Jehovah?
In some cases, it may be
that you’re so involved
in so many different aspects of the work
that perhaps you’re not giving
adequate attention
to your spiritual, personal, or family needs.
Or, on the other hand,
it may be the opposite situation.
You may have those feelings
because you cannot do
as much as you’d like to
or as much as others are doing.
For example, you may have been
very involved in the work,
but unexpectedly your circumstances changed
because of your health
or some other calamity
that came along and shut things down.
Such feelings may cause us to ask ourselves,
‘What does Jehovah really expect of us?’
Well, we’re going to consider
three points in our discussion.
The first is this,
we need to set the right priorities.
Second,
do not compare yourselves unfavorably
with others.
And third,
remember what is important to Jehovah.
Let’s start with our first point:
Jehovah expects us to set
the right priorities.
But how can we do that?
Well, a scripture that’s helped me is found
at 2 Corinthians 8:12.
Now, at the time of this letter,
the Christians in Judea
were facing many trials.
And these trials included
famine, persecution,
and the plundering of their belongings.
They needed relief.
Now, previously, in his first letter,
Paul had encouraged the Corinthians
to set aside funds
to help the brothers in Judea.
Shortly thereafter, when Paul wrote
the second inspired letter
to the Corinthians,
he urged them to get their gifts ready.
So now, with this context of giving,
sacrificing, and helping others in mind,
let’s read 2 Corinthians 8:12:
“For if the readiness is there first,
“it is especially acceptable
“according to what a person has,
“not according to what a person
does not have.”
Paul here is discussing sacrifices
that are acceptable
and sacrifices
that are unacceptable to Jehovah.
What’s the difference?
Well, picture it this way.
Picture a young family in Corinth
—a father, mother, and children.
The father hears the letter from Paul
being read to the congregation,
and the father is very excited.
He wants to help his brothers in Judea.
Now, when the family gets home,
he discusses the matter with his wife.
He says: “We have a little money
“that we’ve set aside
to do some work on the house,
“and we were saving
to purchase another donkey.
“However, I’d like to take that money
and contribute it
to our needy brothers in Jerusalem.”
What do you think?
Would you say
that is an acceptable sacrifice?
Yes.
It’s a sacrifice
—he and his family
are donating money to help others—
but it’s according to what the family has.
That sacrifice would no doubt
be very precious to Jehovah.
You can picture how excited
the family would be
to support that decision.
But now let’s imagine a different family
in the same congregation.
This time, the husband comes home and says,
“I know we do not have any extra money,
“but I’d like to use the money
that we’ve set aside
“to feed our family for the next two weeks
and donate it to the brothers
that are in need in Jerusalem.”
What do you think now?
Would you say
that is an acceptable sacrifice?
It’s the same good motive,
the same good cause,
and it may even be the same amount of money.
But is it acceptable?
No.
Why?
It’s not according to what he has.
Jehovah does not want him
to take food away from his children.
Can you imagine him explaining
that decision to his family?
The father has a God-given responsibility
to feed his family.
Paul says,
‘Just give according to what you have.’
What’s the lesson for us?
How can this help us to maintain balance
and set the right priorities?
Well, our sacrifices
are acceptable to Jehovah
if we give according to what we have.
But our sacrifice would be unacceptable
if we try to give beyond what we have.
How can we apply that?
Well, there are certain areas
that Jehovah says are nonnegotiable.
What are some of those areas?
One is our relationship with Jehovah.
He expects us to keep
that relationship strong
by making time for such important activities
as lingering in prayer,
reading and meditating on God’s Word,
attending and participating in our meetings,
and having a meaningful share
in the ministry.
So, what we do in the way of work
for the organization
must never crowd out the spiritual activities
that keep us close to God.
You see, that would be unacceptable
to Jehovah.
Another example
is our family responsibilities.
Jehovah expects us to care for our family,
not only materially and physically
but also spiritually and emotionally.
So we must spend time together
in family worship, in the field ministry,
and in recreation.
That means that we must not allow
our work for the organization
to interfere with the necessary time we need
to care for our family.
That would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
Another example is our health.
Jehovah expects us to serve him whole-souled.
That involves doing all
that our health allows us to do.
So we do all that we can
to maintain our health
by eating well, getting enough sleep,
and exercising regularly.
Well, again, we must not allow
our work for the organization
to cause us to neglect our health.
That would be unacceptable to Jehovah.
So do you see the point?
What can help us to set the right priorities?
Well, again, remember the principle
here at 2 Corinthians 8:12.
Jehovah, in effect, says:
‘Give to me according to what you have,
‘not according to what you do not have.
And that will be
especially acceptable to me.’
And we know that even though
we have set the right priorities,
it’s still a challenge to maintain balance.
Balance is not something
that once you have it
you can just lock it in.
No, it’s like a tightrope walker
who must constantly recalibrate and adjust
to maintain balance.
The same is true
with maintaining balance in our lives.
I know it’s a constant process for me,
and I’d guess it’s just as challenging
for you as well.
We’ve had excellent articles
in our publications
that help with managing our time.
Here are two of them:
The April 2010 Awake!, page 7,
has an article entitled
“20 Ways to Create More Time,”
and the February 2014 Awake!, page 6,
“How to Invest Your Time Wisely.”
You may find these helpful
to do further research
on how to set the right priorities
and maintain balance.
A second point to help us maintain balance
is this: Do not compare yourselves
unfavorably with others.
There will always be ones
doing more in their service
to Jehovah than we are.
And if we start comparing ourselves to them
or feel that they are
more acceptable to Jehovah,
this can cause us to lose
not just our balance
but our joy as well.
When considering this aspect
of not comparing,
I think of the prophets
Daniel, Ezekiel, and Jeremiah.
As you remember, these men
were contemporaries of one another,
but each had very different circumstances.
Daniel was in the court
of the king in Babylon.
Yes, he had times of persecution
and challenges.
But overall, he was an official for the king.
He received special training
for his position.
So he may have had it relatively easy.
Ezekiel was living among his fellow exiles
in a community “by the river Chebar.”
Overall, things were fairly stable there.
Remember, the Jews in exile
had a measure of freedom.
They built houses, they had children,
they settled down,
and they developed skills in various trades.
So it seems that perhaps they had
a relatively stable life.
Then you have Jeremiah.
He was in Jerusalem.
It seems that somebody
was always trying to kill him.
Much of the time,
he was either hiding or in confinement.
So here’s the question,
Did the differing circumstances
of their assignments
mean that Jehovah loved or favored
one more than the other?
Not at all.
It was just an assignment.
Jehovah wanted a prophet in Jerusalem.
He wanted one with the exiles in Babylon,
and he wanted another
in the court of the king.
It was just the way the assignments fell.
Now, you can imagine
how counterproductive it would’ve been
for each of these three men
to judge his value
based on his assignment
or to compare himself to the other two.
It could happen.
Think about it.
Ezekiel and Jeremiah
could have looked at Daniel and thought:
‘Ah, he has direct access to the king.
‘He’s living where all the big decisions
are being made.
‘He’s right in the center of it all.
‘He can use his influence
to help Jehovah’s people.
‘What a privilege that would be!
I wish I was there!’
Or Daniel and Jeremiah
could’ve looked at Ezekiel
and felt that’s where they wished they were:
‘We would have at least relative freedom
with the exiles.
‘We’d be able to encourage
our fellow worshippers of Jehovah.
We could help others learn about Jehovah.’
Or, believe it or not, Daniel and Ezekiel
could’ve looked at Jeremiah and thought:
‘We know things are tough,
but that’s where we want to be.
‘He’s on the front lines, risking his life
for Jehovah and the nation.
That’s where the action is.’
Different assignments,
different circumstances,
different locations
—but they were all special to Jehovah.
What’s the lesson?
The lesson is
that we must be careful
that we do not compare ourselves
unfavorably with others.
It is good to see
if we can imitate and benefit
from the example of others,
but we need to be careful
that we do not begin determining the value
of what we’re doing for Jehovah
based on what others are doing.
That could cause us to lose our joy,
lose our balance,
and fall into the trap
of doing things for the wrong reasons.
That brings us to our last point:
Remember what is important to Jehovah.
Circumstances change in life.
As mentioned, in the past we may have been
extremely busy in Jehovah’s service.
But because of the world’s situation,
that may have changed.
Or other circumstances in our life
may have changed.
Does that somehow change
how Jehovah feels about us?
No.
How do we know?
What is important to Jehovah?
What makes you
“especially acceptable” to Jehovah?
Well, let’s read together
Acts 10:34, 35:
“At this Peter began to speak, and he said:
“‘Now I truly understand
“‘that God is not partial,
“‘but in every nation the man who fears him
“‘and does what is right
is acceptable to him.’”
Fear Jehovah.
Do what is right.
Obey his commandments.
That’s it.
That’s what makes us acceptable to Jehovah.
We complicate things at times
and equate our responsibilities
—how we’re used,
where we’re asked to serve—
as things that define our value.
That’s not how Jehovah sees things.
A scripture that has helped me
is found at Ecclesiastes 3:10:
“I have seen the occupation
“that God has given to the sons of men
to keep them occupied.”
“The occupation” refers
to our activities, the things we do.
And Jehovah has given us work
to keep us occupied.
Whenever I read that,
I think of parents with their children.
Perhaps they take them to the beach
for the afternoon, and what do they do?
They give them some toys,
and they let them play.
Why?
To keep them occupied.
And that, in a way,
is what Jehovah does with us.
If you think about it,
Jehovah does not need us to do the work.
Jehovah can accomplish his work without us,
but he dignifies us and allows us
to have a share.
He provides us with meaningful work.
Note what it goes on to say in verse 13
of Ecclesiastes chapter 3:
“Also that everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
Work is a gift from Jehovah.
Is it reasonable to think
that Jehovah would give a gift
that stresses us out
or creates hardship for us?
No.
He wants us to find enjoyment in our work.
We are the ones that may get too concerned
with assigning rank and priority
to various privileges
and locations of service
—where we are in the sand
and what toys we have to play with.
What is important to Jehovah?
Notice our final scripture
at Ecclesiastes 12:13:
“The conclusion of the matter,
“everything having been heard, is:
“Fear the true God
“and keep his commandments,
for this is the whole obligation of man.”
Fear Jehovah.
Keep his commandments.
Just serve Jehovah.
Do the best that you can.
Stay balanced.
Give according to what you have.
Those are the important things.
And if you do them, no matter what
your personal circumstances,
you will remain
“especially acceptable” to Jehovah.